---
title: Delete External Events
sidebar: rdp_sidebar
permalink: api_event_delete_scenario5.html
folder: rdp
type: HowToAPI
---

{% include snippets/api_preview.md %}

In Riversand Platform, various external events are generated by the system. By deleting unwanted external events a user can free up memory in the system. This topic describes how to use the RESTful API **{{site.data.rdp_glossary.deleteevent}}** to get such events using a [scenario](#scenario).

## Scenario

To delete an external event.

{% include snippets/header.html %}

## Request

Consider a "sku" entity. You wish to delete "LOAD" event from an entity. To get the request, you can use the REST API {{site.data.rdp_glossary.deleteevent}}. In the request send the following details:

* query -> Specify the required event Id and name for which you wish to delete from an entity. In this scenario we have deleted "LOAD" external event having id as "batch002" and name as "batch002".
* query -> type : As you wish to delete an external event, specify as "externalevent". 

<pre>
<code>
POST **{{site.data.rdp_glossary.getevent}}**
Headers: Content-Type: application/json
Body:
{
  "event": {
    <span style="background-color: #FFFF00">"id": "batch002",</span>
    <span style="background-color: #FFFF00">"name": "batch002",</span>
    <span style="background-color: #FFFF00">"type": "externalevent"</span>
  }
}
</code>
</pre> 

## Response

Returns the status of the response saying whether the "LOAD" events have been deleted or not.

<pre><code>
{
  "request": {
    "returnRequest": false,
    "params": {},
    "requestId": "2eab8656-8397-44e2-be2c-e8ea1bdaf758"
  },
  "response": {
    "status": "success",
    "statusDetail": {
      "messages": [
        {
          "messageCode": "I0015",
          "message": "Submitted externalevent for delete with Id batch002. Check after some time",
          "messageType": "success",
          "messageParams": [
            "externalevent",
            "delete",
            "batch002"
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "totalRecords": 0
  }
}
</code></pre>

## Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshooting Tips](api_troubleshooting_tips.html), for common troubleshooting tips, if required.