---
title: Diagnose System Uptime
sidebar: rdp_sidebar
permalink: api_diag_get_system_uptime_intro.html
type: HowTo
folder: rdp
---

{% include snippets/api_preview.md %}

Riversand Platform offers capability to determine the uptime of the system by performing regular heathchecks. You can ensure the system runs flawlessly by running checks on the different user activities on the system and thus, generating the report. Reporting is the integral part of the uptime process as it provides you with the information that can be debugged and thus, helps to increase the uptime of the application. You can use **getuptimereport** API in diagnostic service to get the system uptime report.

See [Get System Uptime Report](api_diag_get_system_uptime_scenario1.html) and [Understand Uptime Report Results](api_diag_get_understand_results.html), for more information.

## How System Uptime Report works?

Uptime report is generated by performing regular checks through APIs to collect metrics, calculate system uptime, and publish report. The following diagram illustrates the overall health check process flow in Riversand Platform:

{% picture uptime-reporting.png alt="Health check Process" %}

* **Metrics Collection**: The system runs the regular checks through APIs and based on these checks, the report is computed. The API responses are captured in two states:

	* **Up** - Indicated as **0**
	* **Down** - Indicated as **1**

* **Uptime Calculator**: Each health check failure can re-occur at least three times to report that there is a downtime of application. You can utilize the data collected from user activities and based on this data, uptime reporting is performed.

* **Reporting**: The integrated system with Riversand Platform can fetch the uptime reports from the application by invoking **getuptimereport** API call to Riversand Platform. See [Get System Uptime Report](api_diag_get_system_uptime_scenario1.html), for more information.

## Alerting

The check runs at an interval of every 5 minutes. If there is a case of negative response on the very first occurrence, then the alert is triggered with refresh interval of 30 minutes and notification is sent to the appropriate team. This implies that once the alert is triggered, the check is automatically silenced for 30 Minutes.

In Riversand Platform, **Sensu** is used for performing checks periodically and sending alerts to stakeholders, as required.